what's up guys this is another episode
of the creative exchange I am very
excited for this one because we have
Gloria from thousand will do this like
cheesy woo and I'm not going to think
that we need like a woo track like a woo
track yeah yeah
I'll work on my song would be a little
bit better boo song maybe we can work on
that terrier because you just told me
that you have like a background in music
which we'll get to
but for now tell the people out there
what she do I am Gloria I'm the founder
of thousand we make bike helmets you
actually want to wear and actually more
recently we've been making bike
accessories hopefully you want to use so
we're making gloves sweatshirts and
rolling out with a couple more products
this year oh I love that
so the first time that I ever met Gloria
was actually for a creative spaces TV
episode which is where I document
creative types entrepreneurs and things
and during that time is probably two
years ago yeah that stuff is crazy yeah
you were working out of your garage and
it was right after you launched on
Kickstarter yeah so tell me how these
helmets came to be and if you're
watching the video version of the
creative exchange you can actually see
the helmets the back of hurts it's like
right behind her as they're beautiful so
bring us back to the beginning you
launched on Kickstarter launched on
Kickstarter
launched on Kickstarter tried to raise
20k and ended up raising closer to a
quarter of a million I had I don't
really believes me on this point but it
really was totally unplanned I'm not
even part I didn't know anything about
marketing I really did think Kickstarter
was broken okay first started hidden
campaign and I had always secretly
promised myself you know if you hit 70
or 80 K miraculously the total cost it
would have cost me to make the helmets
you know just quit your job and then we
hit that goal within like five or six
days so that day I went to my boss quit
my job started doing thousand four are
you working I was working at Tom's the
shoe company doing product development
philanthropy a little bit of everything
I've always been like a can't sit still
person but anyways I did that I left
Tom's to do this full-time I did
production for like a year so I I've
never ever told you I lived at our
factory for three months to get this
going
I immediately after when we finished we
shipped everything to my house and
garage but you were there for and at
that time we had like three or four
thousand units so like I think the
creative spaces video had it but my
garage is for my backyard was full even
my front yard was full the big DHL boxes
yeah yeah probably six feet tall called
Li every day we would wake up at 7 a.m.
and every night we would work till 11
p.m. and that's just because that was
the last DHL truck that would agree to
come and pick up stuff so it was just
like cranking out 15 hour days for the
first 3-4 months
that was two years ago thousands going
well so you know yeah yeah you guys are
in the arts district do you have a nice
office that's you know you have your own
little warehouse thing yeah it's just so
cool so tell me a little bit about the
journey from your garage to a actual
office and you have seven employees now
yeah free congratulation it's soon it's
honestly it's so crazy I don't it's
super crazy thinking about it in the
sense that like in the early days I
couldn't even call myself an
entrepreneur and I couldn't even really
talk about um the company as a business
I would just be like oh I this is my
project so after a while getting really
comfortable with the idea of like I'm an
entrepreneur now I've no learning
financial statements like what's a P&L
what's a what is the piano yeah it's
like puppets and loss account
again like again learning how to be a
business person finding mentors learning
how not just to make a product but how
to run a business sales and marketing
and all of these things I had never done
before and it's been honestly this past
two years has just been like a journey
to create a business that that's I think
one that's meaningful still so that that
kind of is rooted still in our original
mission of trying to make something that
helps saves lives and encourages people
to get cycling around their cities but
also you know at the end of the day is a
company that's we all want to be at like
for me now it's learning about company
culture and learning to be a better
manager and those things so I can making
thousand a place where you want to work
yet not only place where you want to
like buy stuff from talk about your
mission cuz yeah one I think there is a
big need to fill just wholly how helmets
looked so you having that side of it you
have like okay I want to wear a helmet
that looks cool yeah and what makes your
helmet special yeah yeah why I mean yeah
I mean I'll go back into our story I
don't remember if I told it to you but
back a couple years ago I was just a
longtime cyclist in Los Angeles never
wore it bike helmets
I would you their luck helmet but uh
yeah that was the same thing for me it
was I kind of felt dorky I knew that's
not a good reason but I just didn't wear
it by coming and long-term friend and
mentor of mine was biking around New
York got into a headfirst accident
passed away hmm and wasn't wearing a
bike helmet and after that I said to
myself alright I'm just not being
responsible to myself I'm not being
responsible to people around me and I
said okay I'm gonna go bye-bye commit
and I bought something and I never award
anybody I just thought I just started
Viking less and less because at the end
of the day you know I I didn't want to
be unsafe but I also just didn't want to
work by coming and again I told you my
background was Tom's and I did come from
kind of philanthropy so the thought was
you know if you make a bike helmet
people want to wear one
you could help save a lot of lives but
then too you can really encourage
cycling within cities because one of the
number one reasons people don't want to
start writing around their bikes is
because they don't feel safe so for me
that was a really big motivation and
even now in thousand two years later I
think I'm the mission is expanded for me
it's also learning like a lot of the
reason why people don't want to write
around cities is because there's like
this kind of exclusive cycling culture
where you feel like you have to be a
real biker or like you don't feel like
you totally know what you're doing so
you're really interested it's kind of
yeah yeah especially a city like New
York why are there no how to bike there
oh it's yeah insane but yeah we might
get to that later
no I think that's totally a thing it's
just like how do you kind of help people
who I say our bike interested but really
cautious get into cycling so for me it's
one of those things where the missions
become larger than kind of helmets
because it's become like how do we
empower people to connect to their
cities by just kind of breaking down
those barriers of writing so that's
really what's thousands has morphed into
or not even morphed into I think that's
always been our mission but has
clarified into in this last two years
yeah and something unique that stood out
not yes they look but you have the pop
lock yeah a little bit about that holy
yeah so the pop lock is a secret feature
in our helmets where you can pop out the
logo mark you can pop a bike walk
through and lock it up to your bike and
our best thing is if your helmets ever
stolen we just replace the helmet for
free amazing and for us I think more
than anything it's it's part of that
original mission how do we break down
the barriers of kind of getting helmets
on people and then riding for people and
there's no excuses yeah basically we're
trying to build helmets we're in
products in general well there's no
excuses anymore where you and I get
while there's excuses before because
like I mean I did it and I'm not like
the poster child for helmet safety
because truth is five years ago I didn't
wear how many there but I think that's
the point of thousand to build a company
where we're making products where
they're breaking down barriers of
writings where they're just really
useful human centered tools for like
people traveling around in cities and I
think bigger picture too hopefully it'll
help the conversation of
when you're in these cities like la in
New York bikers are kind of looked at as
like why are you even on the road your
mess up oh yeah yeah New York I mean the
traffic is insane and it's such a little
island so you really can get from place
to place with a bike or I ride an
electric skateboard a lot yeah and it's
possible you do that ulterior you know
ways of getting a point A to point B but
it's so difficult to do it you know
there's a lack of respect honestly I
don't think the bikers the the ones who
kind of recklessly ride help yeah better
sure like there's so much work on both
sides and also you know like bike lanes
and sounds like that is I think it's
such a viable way to get your person
from point A to point B and you're not
in a car you know gas and all that stuff
and it it does ultimately help traffic
so I think there's such you know even
like a bigger picture of you know I know
people are trying to work with cities
and stuff to have you know you see these
European cities that are so into biking
and that's like the majority of how
people yeah that place is holding yeah I
think that's the thing at the end of the
day when you look at like the stats just
around cycling stats helps offset carbon
emissions cycling helps D clog cities
for traffic cycling helps personal
health cycling actually helps personal
safety too when you kind of there's more
people on the road there's less traffic
accidents but at the end of the day one
of the biggest kind of problems is lack
of infrastructure and then lack of
infrastructure is lack leads to people
not wanting to ride bikes which lacks
leads to kind of lack of safety and it's
okay it's fine it's just a big cycle
yeah and at the end of the day like the
US was built to be car-centric
like roads were literally built just for
cars so we will never kind of get over
this problem of like traffic congestion
especially in cities like LA in New York
unless we start kind of move towards
alternative transportations but we're
also not gonna get there unless we want
to have the infrastructure for it but we
also start educating people like this is
how you start cycling in a non
intimidating inclusive way where you
don't feel like you have to be like a
new
bike messenger to feel like you're a
biker that's are crazy yeah that's a
whole nother I met a messenger actually
recently and she makes videos about it
and I watched a few I was like they're
so intense yeah this is terrifying
the whole terrifying oh my goodness
champions yeah so it's like how can
everyone coexist yeah possible yeah I
think it is this someone that I I
literally ride my boosted word yeah
whenever I can when the weather pearly
and it's such a good way to get around
and it's just fun yeah and biking is the
same way and especially when you live in
a city that's so cool well it's I think
there's still just so much more room for
ya especially in cities like New York
Cody but when you were at Toms did you
have any experience of being a manager
or having people underneath you or is
this kind of a new thing that you're
learning how to do yes and no in the
sense that I was a project manager so I
did a lot of informal management and the
sense that like I had project teams and
I gave project team people their jobs
and what they were responsible for and I
followed up on them but you call that
like when you're a project manager but
you don't have direct reports you call
that indirect management or informal
management and like for me that was
actually a lot easier in the sense that
like I could just be everyone's friends
and we could you know just pal around
and for me it was just making sure I'm
staying on top of things to get things
done but this is different in the sense
that it's formal management where I've
got a team and I've got a work with
people and stuff and it's been a it's
been a learning curve for me just like
understanding how to motivate people
also like how to be a leader without I
guess for me being a leader in like the
way I wouldn't naturally be a leader
versus like the way someone else would
tell me how to be a leader like because
you have to find your strengths because
you can't be another person and I think
that's something that even creators in
general whether video photo design I
only look to people for inspiration yeah
but where you get tripped up is when you
start trying to mimic what works for
them
in reality you got a gun what's good for
you yeah at the beginning like it was
really easy for me to listen to everyone
in terms of what everyone's opinion was
cuz I'm like well they're they're
smarter than me then they have more
experience than me but what I have found
more and more true is when I kind of
maintain my vision my mission Who I am
as a person at its core and
understanding my strengths and to
leverage those strengths that's what I'm
always doing my best job so even when it
comes to managing like I'm not a person
that barks orders so I shouldn't try to
be not a person who like some people
love hierarchy and like formal rules and
structure I'm not so as a manager how
then do I best use my skills as someone
who loves to collaborate or someone who
really loves to do like project
management work like how do I use those
skills versus like again you know
manager leader what'd you think of your
little CEO skills and like imitating
what was your thing was it yeah it was
it because you said most of the
marketing the meeting was organic which
is amazing and so like what was that one
strength and then you know I guess you
have to fill in positions yeah of people
who do a better job at your weaknesses
well it was your jam in the beginning
and still now and like what is that one
thing that you know you're good at and
that you focus on yeah I would say I'm
still a generalist and all in always in
the sense that like I know my one
strengths
a hundred percent is I'm really good at
solving problems
you give me any problem I don't get
nervous I'm like let's take this in
order to solve yeah yeah you know this
killed a problem um so like whatever it
is like no matter how big the problem it
just makes me more excited I want to
solve the problem so for me that has
really manifested a thousand into
product so I handle all of our product
these days but in the beginning you kind
of have to be good at everything cause
you don't have a team yet so for me I
learned how to do marketing for me I
learned how to do sales and kind of go
on sales call and pitch things so it's
kind of like you don't get a 20-7 the
beginning you just have to do everything
until you build enough capacity where
you can just hire someone
that's just better than you yeah you've
done a lot of or I guess the majority of
yourselves you know has been
direct-to-consumer line being in LA you
know kind of hitting you have a product
that really appeals to people in cities
I think and so do you have like plans to
start pop-up shops do you think there's
value in that physical space totally
yeah I think one of the big values we
have here is community where we really
want to build a community and we always
say that we want to get people under the
tent one of the things we're doing here
in this space where you saw downstairs
is we don't have a name for it we're
calling in a community space for calling
a clubhouse but essentially it's just a
downstairs nicely curated spot for
cyclists to come in for us to do
workshops and movie nights out of again
we're not trying to monetize or generate
revenue out of the space we're just
trying to I think tell our story as a
brand of like this is what cyclamens the
thousand in a really inclusive way but
also to again fulfill the other part of
a mission of how to be empower cyclists
to get going so for us it's like
bringing them into the fold and then
teaching them things that's so cool
yeah yeah that's so cool do you have any
inspirations and the business space that
you've seen kind of like come up around
you and be like oh they're kind of doing
similar things what are they doing I
kind of um not put you in this category
but I've seen a lot of brands yeah like
a wave a white luggage and so great that
are you know they have one product they
start with a carry-on and then you know
they do just online cells and other
pop-up shops and everywhere you look
there's a weight luggage now and kobir
it's and now here everywhere I look
there's a wait ladies yeah
thousand helmet yes you know I see
people just biking down Venice we are
like oh there's a thousand moment yeah
so I think there's a lot and I think
they've been around for two years - and
holy there's a lot of cool brands that
are cool you know you guys are cool guys
are cool you are so there's a lot of
kind of brands that I kind of put yeah
that circle who are killing it yeah and
are still kind of new oh they do look to
any
that are kind of similar to or do you
take inspiration from outside of what
you're doing like who are your biggest
inspirations yeah people were companies
I would say companies for sure that I
have always thought to a great job I
love away travel Warby has not been a
long time or if you've heard her ID
although my clients are worried yeah
glasses USA - actually it has crushed it
recently but Warby is amazing yeah I'm
small just totally and I think that's
the thing for these ion thing the whole
Trion thing I think at the roots of it
direct consumer brands who are now
trying to have an experiential space is
like a real trend right now but I think
at the heart of it is the idea that they
just want to make one product that is
relevant to people like that people see
the product and say that's me and then
they also just try to put in the
channels where those people go and they
also find relevance so like again I
think this whole experience will
movement thing that's popping up right
now is as a result of retail going into
way so it'll be hyper convenient or will
be high perks you know experiential so I
think direct consumer brands are picking
up on okay then if I'm going to do
retail then we're gonna go what retail
it hasn't been for us before so you have
to go all like all in this way that's
one retail misses and I just put up a
shop and then that's it it was like you
have to give people a reason to go there
the what they're missing out on maybe on
the online shopping experience is not a
person from the company right there with
them helping them along the way every
time that I went into Warby Parker
instantly you have an employee like
helping you out yeah and so you really
when going into retail have to give a
personal reason and it's been so cool to
see like oh we have coffee and a band
and yeah like retail spaces and pop-up
shops have become so extra yeah I love
it
yeah it's so cool yeah
yeah that's a really interesting thing
too right now and I think there's also
going to be a additional shift that's
really where we're trying to kind of
stay in front of is right now I think
people have realized retail is no longer
just walking in hopefully you find what
you're looking for retail now if it's
experiential it has to have something
extra for a person to go into but I
think beyond experience she'll people
are really looking for community after
that so like for me even a really good
brand that I feel like has always been
Tyrell is a called Rafa so like over
there
there are cycling a brand also but they
have coffee shops clubhouses I think
maybe like 20 all over the world
basically you buy a monthly mint are you
buy a yearly membership it's all the
free coffee you want to drink for the
year yeah and it's like they make gear
specifically for their members like at
these club houses they do events they do
talks and but more than anything they're
just trying to get people in the raffle
community to come out do rides again
building friendships and I think that's
the next step past experience yeah
that's where we kill will really go yeah
if you can build that community because
that's similar to the co-working spaces
you told me you know maybe the past 20
years a shift has been I want to work
remotely I don't need to be in the
office but then you have so the classic
corporate world the nine-to-five I want
to work remotely but then you have all
of these more creative types and
entrepreneurs you see the move being oh
I want to be around people I want to
collaborate with people and I'm now even
seeing the kind of like club thing come
under where they're they call themselves
a co-working space yeah but it's more of
like hey we bring exclusive events to
you and a good example is have you heard
of the wing
I don't know so that we young it's only
for women I think but yeah that is their
thing it is only for women but there's
locations all around New York City okay
basically they are a co-working space
where that yeah bring your laptop work
and stuff but you know there's like
powder rooms and showers
they have exclusive events they just had
Jennifer Lawrence come talk about her
new movie at their Brooklyn space right
now JLo and so it's just crazy because
they close at 8:00 and like so it's not
really when I think co-working space I'm
like I need to be posted up here you're
like working all day with my TV you know
so it's more just like general space
where you have meetings and stuff but I
see also more of a shift towards that
Wow just building communities for be
able to come together take meetings and
I think it's you know because the
Internet has done such a good job of
connecting us yeah but when we're all
alone hosing yeah
wait where's people yeah I want to talk
to I'm craving to talk to people no but
I think I think it's exactly that like
when I feel like when the Internet has
made things so convenient for us that we
don't need to actually go anywhere to
get a lot of things done so that I felt
like and sometimes the worst I think at
strengths weaknesses so now the
pendulums when back is well we're alone
all the time now how do we create spaces
where people can gather so I totally I
think people are yeah really craving
oh that you're hiding there in it's
interesting to see kind of the coast
leading the movement yeah and it'll be
interesting to see how that kind of
affects suburb life I feel like it
always kind of hits the coast first
because being from Texas it's
interesting in that watching the crowd
spaces TV episode I saw that you had a
pillow with the accent on it so what is
the Texas connect are you from - yeah
we're in Texas I was born in Beaumont
Texas
they're like stop me two weeks okay and
I get to Houston
race their land of the Beyonce and Liza
Kojima claim to fame is Beyonce Liza ko
she absolutely no more recently the
Astros
oh but sports ball yes I can't even
claim to have know anything about I
don't even know my family I don't know
what that's to be a fan yeah but then I
went to school in Austin Texas beauty
yeah is he did she could make my dad to
UT so I'm like born and bred and access
is important things about yo nose so I
was born in Dallas Texas yeah yeah
grapevine okay so if you've ever been a
DFW Airport you have been on top of my
home so born razor 20 years of my life
yeah and then I moved to Nashville and
in New York but my dad went to UT my
went to Texas Tech and they met at TCU
maybe this is maybe this is why we get
along people in tech from Texas exactly
I look at this different breed I always
believe like the transplants on the
coast or what really make the coast good
okay cuz we have a balance you know when
I first moved to LA in Texas as you know
yeah it is polite to talk to people in
mind just to make conversation you you
got to hold it back a little bit
especially in New York I didn't know
that when I moved to LA I didn't even
know I needed to LA so I was one over my
neighborhood and I was saying hi to my
neighbors like down the street I was
like how's it going how are you doing no
I'm talking me down I think it was in a
Staples
papasan in line and they look like what
are you even doing and I went to work
and I started a new job I was like 22
and I was like yeah you know a little
finicky here nah what are you doing my
mom is just talking to people in this do
that here
oh yeah
and I honestly it's so you know talking
to people it's fantastic I love it I'm a
very social person but that's actually
one of my favorite parts about New York
though yeah when I'm not creating or
being social I'm very much so an
introvert yeah so the fact to it yeah I
can hop in an uber and just take those
20 minutes to answer email and I know
they're not gonna try to talk to me yeah
that's like amazing all right you know
I'm half the time in New York I'm like
no makeup just like jeans and a
sweatshirt trying to get stuff down
running around I'm like no one talked to
me but then you know you there is an
element that you do miss cuz you walk
into any coffee shop in Texas and like
anyone anywhere that you talk about you
can literally become BFFs with a
stranger in like closing in minutes
people open up doors for you mm-hmm but
I totally get that there is something
nice about just like especially when
you're creating you're making stuff all
day like just being by yourself
recharging for a minutes because I
recharged by being alone so that's why I
feel like I'm so good well how do you
know I would leave that yeah cuz I can
sit down edit for literally eight to ten
hours yeah I'm and by the end of that
yeah okay I feel better I think I can go
like out and film stuff with people and
in talk with what do you feel like again
like by talking to more people and
having to do a lot of stuff though
you're becoming more like extroverted
and the sense that you're you're you
starting and get more energy from other
people no honestly it's always been the
same thing because you know like doing
this is amazing and like I'm probably
gonna hang out with people all day today
but when it comes like 6 p.m. yeah and
I've been hanging out with people all
day I'm like I'm ready to eat dinner
alone with Netflix like luckily John my
boyfriend that's kind of the same way
yeah so we're able to able to kind of
just like be alone together basically so
special
you know but yeah I've I just become
more self-aware a man because for me I
always beat myself up about it so I
would always you know middle school high
school full of pressure of doing normal
things you hang out with your friends
almost every day like going to movies
doing normal things but I didn't want to
do that like I wanted to stay at home
and like edit videos I want to stay at
home and I could make music yeah my
favorite times is when I'm being like
creative with you yeah and it's all it
almost like like when I just go and get
coffee with someone it has to be like
someone that I like you know like I I
want to go and just like have lunch with
you like if it's some person that I know
I don't know I I don't like connect on a
certain level yeah almost like it's
gonna sound so bad but I just don't
wanna waste my time you know because
because I know when I'm around people I
am it does suck away energy in a good
way I'm nicer so you're an extrovert
though okay I'm differently sense of
like for sure growing up I was like I'm
an introvert all the way every time I
was the same way every time I didn't do
a lot I would beat myself up for it like
if I wasn't go go go but whenever I got
home I would just turn off my phone I
wouldn't talk to anyone I just want to
binge them some TV to just a totally
recharge and again same thing my best
friends are ones were like we're doing
nothing together literally we're in
separate each other together is one of
the most special things you can find and
your friends or just people who are
culture that's when you know like we
have we understanding each other we're
the same people but for me it's been
like the more when I've actually first
heard a thousand it was really hard for
me because I had so many meetings I had
talked to so many people in like media
afterwards I would come back and I would
people would be like how would it go am
i great and I would have to just be by
myself for like three hours I would have
to just like recharge but now I'm to the
point where I almost need to talk to
people who write neetha yeah next but I
still have that feeling where like it's
in a dose for me it's like I have a
an hour to bill and I'm like cool I
would love to just take 30 minutes yeah
you know it might change especially when
everything you do now kind of revolves
with a team and yeah and you do have a
team and you probably become a family
I'm sure you guys are all homies and
yeah it's cool so you know some point in
my life I feel like there is going to be
a shift in terms of my work life yeah it
truthfully now that I think about it
Amit has always been very much so just
me
very solo job I'm always collaborating
with the other people and that's so cool
but most the time the people want
Calabria it's our other kind of like
solo creators there are youtubers there
are designers you know very much so
solopreneurs yeah um but there's I guess
there's always a dream of like taking
things to the next level and having a
team of people around you and I think
I'll definitely have to shift my focus
yeah during that time you know but I
think that's always a good thing yeah
when you surround yourself people common
mission common thing totally told you
yeah after a while you're just I will
say it's the same thing once and maybe
it is one of those things in servers on
the extraversion it's also just a
comfort level with certain people I
think when you work together all day you
don't have to hold this like high energy
this is my best self all the time
because like you're sitting next to each
other for like ten hours
I think this they you know I mean
there's also just that honesty of like
we probably know each other all better
than our significant others yeah yeah
yeah because like so I think maybe
that's also why there's more comfort and
I'm feeling more comfortable around
being a lot around all a lot of people
sometimes just because like I think you
also just kind of let your guard down to
being more perfect and just being more
this is just who I am and I'm not gonna
ramp it up perfect I'm just gonna kind
of keep it steady state good yeah that's
good going back to Texas that's cool you
almost went to graduate school right I
gotta go but tell me about that time in
your life and why did you feel the need
to go to graduate
and what happened after that that was I
would say the most intense time of my
life in the sense that I was at Tom's at
that point for about two and a half
years and I asked myself a question one
day is this what you're gonna do forever
and it was like automatically no yeah so
for me I was just like okay then I need
to find what's next and I think I was
trying to I think secretly I had always
wanted to be an entrepreneur I went to
Tom's because it was a startup at the
time I had always kind of like had my
own little businesses and never worked a
traditional job growing up but going to
graduate school for me was the idea of
if I'm honest I think I was scared to be
an entrepreneur and I wanted to go to
business school so I could learn
everything first and then kind of go out
on my own and do the whole thing in my
essays I wrote all that I said I want to
go to business school to be an
entrepreneur
and I was also working for a start-up
around this time because I was like
maybe I'll bounce to another startup
that had already had like two to three
people so I said this is much less risky
than starting something myself so maybe
I'll do that and I think I was just
doing and when I look back now I
realized that time was me trying to get
myself to be comfortable and to be
vulnerable enough to say I want to start
something myself I want to bet on myself
and I want to be comfortable win or lose
that I made I made the leap so I think I
didn't recognize that about myself at
the time so I had gone through the
process of applying to graduate school
did my essays got letters of Rex took
the GMAT spatzle Peraza
yeah oh six six months of just likes
being the library no friends and the
week I was going to apply my mom was
just like do not apply you don't want to
do this why and my mom often knows more
about me than I know about myself so I
took it to heart and I didn't apply and
I think two to three weeks later I
started thinking about this startup that
I was with and I was like do I actually
want to be doing this or do I feel like
it's my next step to get to my thing
that it's my I think it's the next step
so I they were making me an offer and I
turning down the offer and there was
just months where I had when I was
thinking of what to do next I think
three or four months where I just had
nothing left like I just kind of had
burned every path down in my wake in for
me it was but it was one of the best
times in my life just because there was
a lot of self growth that happened in
the sense I was really honest about
myself of what I wanted to do next
and how do I get there so it was it was
good but it was also like a really scary
time right but it led you to where you
are today yeah it is good so do you have
like a really good relationship with
your mom it's because yeah I said that
I'm like my mom Jeanie she definitely
sometimes knows me better than yeah I
would know you know and she's always the
one that if my life is crashing around
who's around me it's always like a
two-hour phone call you know YouTube is
kind of always like up and down so you
know there's been moments from like
should I just go get a real job but I
realize I've never had a real job yeah
like that's terrible yeah what's your
relationship like with your mom and like
your family yeah I was I'm really close
with my family I wouldn't say we were
growing I wasn't growing up my family
has been really we're all really really
independent people my parents were both
entrepreneurs but they have always
trained me to be very independent as a
thinker and as a person so it took me a
while to kind of I would say late 20s to
Dart start having like a relationship
with my parents you're in your light
join us you can t I'm 31 31
yeah older he's 23
you're so much better
no I've been in crushing it I think I
thought that it messes with my Christmas
you guys said it I really didn't know
that much about myself I really seemed
to everything happens for a reason you
know and so you're you're at a really
cool place so sorry I didn't mean to
derail you but your parents independent
thinkers taught you how to be that way
yeah again so they always taught me how
to go on my own path and do my own thing
so I think I think that's why I really
value them my parents traditionally
honestly my parents are immigrants um in
traditional Chinese immigrants will tell
you hey go to undergrad it go to
graduate school get that doctorate
become a doctor engineer or lawyer like
those are your three choices and my
parents were really never that way well
they really always wanted me to be one
they wanted to me be happy but two they
wanted me to think for myself and figure
out what I wanted to do
they were always reinforcement at me
when I was younger so I think when I
just started to get into my late 20s I
think in your early 20s at least for me
I was just like I know myself so well
I'm crushing it and everything I do I
don't need any help friend from anyone
and then it's like the older you get
you're like you get more comfortable and
you're not knowingness so I think that's
when I started to talk more to my
parents I'm like I probably started out
as complaining this is what's happening
honey I just want to be sympathetic I
don't want input I just want simple but
from that like I I had just started to
realize like my parents just had
insights and they had just knew me
better than I thought I knew myself at
time so in that instance with graduate
school but my first instinct was just to
call my mom and to ask her
it wasn't even to ask her what I wanted
to do I was literally just calling to
complain and usually through that you're
telling them low key what you want to do
yeah and it just takes that little bit
from them to be like that's what just go
for it yeah I told thee is it the same
with your kind of it's weird to say but
I think they like hit
home run with parenting yeah because you
know you don't always understand it
while you're in it but now looking back
you know I was fortunate enough
fortunate enough to like grow up in this
bubble and known as Fort Worth and you
know we didn't have everything but like
I had a good life and whenever I wanted
something yeah it'd be like 100 support
like yeah you want a guitar cool like
yeah we're gonna be here but like you
have to go and work to get it I just
can't buy you a guitar yeah getting me
like and one of the favorite stories I
always tell is you know in middle school
it's cool to like games you don't have
Gameboys PSPs and stuff I think I was
maybe like fifth grade even and so this
new PlayStation Portable came out PSP
and I wasn't thinking I'm that to get me
for doing that time and you know I I
babysit babysat even when I was in fifth
grade you know one of those things were
like the parents would still be there
yet I'd be playing with the kids and
that was like my job as a fifth grader
yeah six room and so when the PSP came
in I was like oh my god this is sick
like I want this my mom's like cool like
what are you gonna do to get it like
yeah I'll help you maybe find some jobs
but like I'm not just gonna buy it for
you are you kidding me yeah I remember
so clearly it was three hundred and
sixty one dollars web sacks attacks that
is even yeah that's rough so I get a
literally like a year later yeah um but
I remember saving up like you know
birthday money here were my grandparents
stuff and like babysitting and stuff and
so I finally got enough money literally
till like quarters and pennies to buy
this PSP and so we got to gamestop I
bought it and I was so excited but I
realize it's like I'm in I don't have
enough money to buy man so I look he was
like mom oh yeah buy me a game she's
like no I guess you're gonna have to
save up
like she she came and I literally played
on the menus I like just PSP like menu
settings I thought were just like so
cool anyways so I would like load up
music on it and like play on the
settings for another like three months I
saved up enough money it's like buy the
game but like during that time I was
like dude this is lame yeah headed out
of the ballpark for like birthdays and
stuff you know if it was in between
names application yeah but in hindsight
there are so many moments like that
holy where I associated things that I
want I'm partially working for it you
know yeah it's a that's that's something
that and it's always been like a very
open conversation about that but they've
always like supported me yeah everything
so even if it was something that you
know kind of like it's up to you like
you know you want to quit basketball we
don't know if that's the right decision
but like you we you know support you you
know and I'm sure in the back of their
head it's like we've spent a lot of
money on the basketball camp and you
know this jersey is worth that you know
but like we support you yeah they're
always at games and so during that time
when music was such a big part of my
life and I hated basketball all of a
sudden they're like okay if you want to
quit basketball we support you yeah and
then I supported me in music and then
you know when I wanted to drop out of
college
yeah I was on the phone with my mom for
like two hours a day just like college
is the word yeah like I'm doing this
video thing I really think it can happen
so yeah I think what was your mom's
reaction again when you're talking yeah
I mean it was it was really like a six
month conversation it started with or
you know I say six months it was
probably realistically like two to three
months and like yeah yeah yeah at the
moment I started to think about it was
when I moved to Nashville and I had my
first semester at Belmont and in
Nashville doing computer science I was
like this is the worst I mean like I was
smart in high school and so I felt that
guilt to do something responsible in
college yeah electrical engineering
computer science I felt it yeah and
that's probably similar to like a lot of
immigrants yeah sure
sure no but that deal it just came from
me I don't know you know like most
parents are gonna support me no matter
what but I have a hard time with like
beating up myself sure making the
standards just like through the roof
yeah you know and so when I moved to
Nashville and it's just things didn't
add up anymore in terms of like
financially - I got I like ran out of
scholarship money and I had you know I
had a little chunk of money in my
college account for one the time when I
ran out of scholarship money yeah and it
was all gone yeah the first semester I
went to Belmont
well $15,000 a semester that's like
rough dude seriously so it cleaned up
all the money I had just the first
semesters there I study a year and a
half left yeah and so I was looking at
things financially - I was like this
doesn't make sense yes I don't go into
debt and then my heart was like I hate
so much taught me to think I think it's
really you know been valuable in that
way but this is the word and so you know
as I just began talking to my mom and I
you know I was out doing things it
wasn't like I was sitting on the couch
eating Cheetos
I was out there I was like doing random
corporate video jobs and things and so
when that time come
came when I was like I need to drop out
of college we had already had so many
conversations and she supported me yeah
it was a little different with my dad
but I think there always has to be that
like well let me tell you something
there's always both parents can't be
supportive that's too much
it's like to the point where I was like
dad you're not paying for my college you
have no say so we're not allowed to be
mad at me my dad told me when I started
this again he's a great guy but he's but
I told him the idea I was gonna quit my
job all these different things and he
said to me I'm willing to lose X amount
of money on you for this because he
really just didn't believe thousand was
gonna go well Wow
and it didn't it didn't hurt my feelings
to a degree just because it's like I get
where they're coming from running a
business is tough they're immigrants
they worked their whole lives to have a
stable career in a job but um I get it
it's it's kind of like while you may
have the support of one
and you internally I also have the same
things I was just like I have this job
that pays me good amount of money I have
benefits and a 401k people would kill to
have this career should I just stay but
again always taking that leap to say Who
I am Who am I as a person what can I
contribute like what am I meant to be
doing and going in after it is like it
turns out it's like 90% of the work but
didn't know that way yeah yeah you don't
know when you start exactly what age did
your parents come to us did they
immigrate immigrated from China they
immigrated earth Taiwan Taiwan born in
China though my parents are rockstars
yeah I had a different word but I don't
want to say those were my parents
immigrated when they were like 30 did
you guys know that you were born in
China my parents were born in okay I won
they came to this country when they were
like 30 for graduate school they were
both the first ones and their families
to come so like they were at the
Trailblazers for my dad maybe this is
why he told me this whole money thing my
grandma told my dad doesn't come back
without a green card well my dad always
told me when he came to this country he
had like 300 bucks in his pocket and he
came as a graduate student and he came
to the Graduate School that basically
gave him the most like he lined up all
the his offers and he was like which one
will give me the most the one that gave
him the most like paid for his plane
ticket everything out here and right
when he got here he got to the school
and he says I want to be a teaching
professor because he needed to work in
to support himself and he badgered the
professor's or he bad badgered the board
for like six months and they let him be
a professor so while he was kidding his
graduate degree he was also a professor
at the school Wow
but yeah total total badasses yeah yeah
I mean that's so cool and the data that
and like now look at you and like you
are quite literally like living the
American dream I know there's a lot of
like weird
for acting like what is the American
dream but it is so amazing that like
they did that and now like look at the
life that they've created holdy yeah
again give my parents a hundred percent
credit like it's probably the same with
your parents I never I could never even
imagine a world where I didn't have to
work for something to get something
right just cuz I saw their work ethic
more than anything but it is I think it
had been the American dream for them
from for me when I worked at Tom's it
was funny it was a cool job am i I was
trying to tell my parents about my job
they had no interest whatsoever and I
thought maybe that they just don't care
about my work but right when I started
thousand my mom constantly is like
clipping articles for me to read now by
calling me to tell me about Mike things
like it's so irrelevant like yeah you
know she's just sent me an article for a
bike shop and I'm like that's thank you
that's so cool
yeah well shout out to your parents yeah
parents number one you know woo mr. and
mrs. really holding it I find that you
know there's not there's definitely not
one path to success
totally anyway yeah so it's cool to hear
the stories there's a lot of people have
stories of their parents not being there
for them or they're maybe not being the
people that you would think parents
would be yeah that shapes them to be the
human they are today time like you know
but it is cool to also hear the stories
of like parents being cool yeah and like
you know they're not perfect
they're human I think that's yeah a
number one thing that helps um like kids
is when you're kind of like humanize
your parents like they totally are human
once you realize that it's weird but
it's like oh they're just like me
totally there's just a little bit older
yeah you know they're not perfect oh so
they can't make mistakes and that's
maybe an okay to forgive them for that
exactly so it's cool to hear those
stories especially at the immigrant
story because yeah especially now that's
so relevant holy mmm but shifting gears
a little bit yeah a lot actually I want
to know your involvement of music cuz I
didn't know
either honestly I think some of the
coolest creative people yeah have a past
and music and I think it does really
overlap and a lot of things yeah I think
it does I you might be right I want to
know your history of music - mine was I
being in from Texas you loved singer and
songwriters and you learn to kind of
play around in your guitar being a
singer/songwriter mine was just like I
started playing maybe you were in the
same time I started playing guitar in
middle school cool yeah I had heard a
great yeah someone had played a killer
like back in black cover and I was like
yes that's I was one of the first time
so I learned back in fact with the first
time I ever learned was meant to live by
Switchfoot did you ever so much yeah her
name would set three chords on the
American Idiot one or stuck in the road
oh oh gosh I don't know I mean I know
you mean yeah yeah again learn how to
play on that stuff I always wanted to be
a singer songwriter did kind of the
little bit of the band stuff in high
school and college opened up for friends
had to stuff but I thought honestly if
I'm honest I wasn't super super good and
I got I knew that about myself
so who are innocent yeah I'd like to
write music and with anything I thought
I was a lyricist I was a decent guitar
player okay okay were you the lead
singer of your band I was a our second I
wasn't like the harmonies in South Asia
but at one point I realized like I
really liked the production side of
things too so just throughout college I
would like work in music studios I would
kind of earn my I like would earn money
by like working at local venues - by
just doing their sound yeah nice
okay so community centers like cool yeah
yeah well I grew up in my church where
you have to kind of learn how to do
everybody if you're a church yeah yeah I
never do the mixing board but yeah
basically you know my friend who would
play guitar was singing like he would
end up on the yeah mixing more like all
the times either doing the ears or doing
some house and stuff and yeah you learn
I think especially when you're in a band
I think it's like a really good exercise
to learn how to work together yeah tell
they not tear each other's freaking
heads on yeah like you had a couple okay
but it is some of the funnest times
right that's the one thing that I missed
yeah that I actually don't think
anything else could like fulfill the joy
of playing onstage holy there is a joy
on stage like none other
and that when you it's so crazy to me
still even though I know what it's like
when you're like a guitar player you
know get on stage with a drummer and a
bass learn another guitar player and a
singer literally just like all of your
parts just come together yeah I know
that sounds super no idea I know you're
talking about magic yeah I know the fact
that you know you can get to a point
where you have an audience yeah and you
play to people yeah that's like nothing
else
holy what what okay are you a guitarist
I might yeah I like a guitar I really
had like all the gears so I had five
different guitars yeah I had a massive
guitar little yeah pedal board I had
yeah like I got into that gear whole
tune oh yeah I had like a 1966 Fender
bandmaster head with like fancy like you
know like the vintage yeah Oh had like a
bad cat to get more of their like foxy
yeah sound so I was a dork when it came
here but also playing yeah so did you
play electric guitar too I played an
acoustic guitar but my gear stuff came
actually with like audio recording stuff
yeah yeah there's a whole world with
like vintage microphones that you could
really like ribbon mics with it
I just hold condensers like you 87's
like again you just get really into the
sounds of things you can come like an
audiophile yeah did you ever like own
annoy Minh or Neumann we miss it oh yeah
what I had no you know I call me Newman
Newman but I can't Newman I'm gonna say
my heaven that sounds better
okay yeah because I there was a time
where like we recorded a IP and
everything yeah I was very much so into
that world yeah and like one of the
recordings use that we recorded and like
had a neumann mic just god yeah they're
fancy makes yeah yeah yeah yeah and it's
it's hidden - I would say it's
hard probably when you're younger to to
get into audio stuff cuz it's expensive
Spencer yeah more so than the guitar
stuff and pedal stuff because you could
buy a pedal for 50 bucks
exactly yeah and with did you like start
grojband like upgrade approach with em
audio my guys have blast from the past
yeah this is yeah the god this is what I
like recorded my guitar into and like
yeah yeah yeah I got the same thing I
started in GarageBand I moved on to Pro
Tools but I had all the mics I had all
the setup stuff that's when when you sat
down and I saw you have good core
technique yeah props yeah and so with
that do you well I'll start with saying
this recently I actually got a chance to
go to the Gibson like showroom yeah yeah
yeah and it just brought up kind of like
the kiddin me yeah I was like I'm not
only 20 or whatever but like the middle
school high school Sarah tolsey oh my
god I'm getting the gear buggy did you
good like it's heart center all the time
when your kitchen I like knew my name
every weekend you go to Qatar centre you
sit in a sound booth exactly sure
honestly that's what helped fund my
venture into video camera stuff and like
Rieger is because ever like I worked
when I wasn't playing music or playing
basketball I was like babysitting or the
refereeing basketball I always had these
like random jobs I talked guitar lessons
and so to buy guitar gear because I was
so obsessed with it and so when the time
came to get into photo/video
all I did was like sell all my guitar
gear I got like all this cool yeah yeah
which was fun but now I miss it so when
I went to that showroom I was like
getting the bug again and it's something
about it I was like I don't really have
hobbies because my homies bring it to my
job so yeah with you being this like
boss lady CEO yeah sure oh it's working
do you have time for hobbies do you have
hobbies
what are your hobbies I'm probably the
same as you in essence that I used to
have so many hobbies so I was so curious
about everything I used to get and play
music thanks to build furniture I used
to do you know just random creative
things I used to love to figure it out
it's tough now with work just because I
won't even see it stuff now with work I
like working so much that I kind of
forget about other things too
yes I'll complain about it but I see
really like I'm like causes work a
little bit like exact justice I
genuinely really love because at the end
of the day you're kind of creating I
feel like even when you have hobbies
you're you're just trying to learn and
you're just trying to create and you
should make something and I think that's
the same when you kind of love your job
you're just kind of you're trying to do
the same thing for me I kind of forget
like it is my job than half the time
you're like this is just what I do I
know I'll make helmets yeah that's the
thing yeah and yeah it's your job and
it's crazy yeah so to wrap things up I
mean what would you say to a person out
there that's trying to make their hobby
their job what's um you know so
encouragement or maybe something that
you learned the hard way along the way
or a piece of advice from another person
yeah if you just remember I feel like
making your hoppier job from the from
the people I have seen trying to make
that leap I would say surrounding
yourself with a lot of mentors is like
probably the number one thing it's
really hard to understand like what you
don't know like that's just the thing
fact of life like you don't know what
you don't know so for me a big thing
that has been a real benefit to me is we
have a Board of Advisors I have mentors
I talked to a lot and even when I see
those people trying to bridge the whole
side hustle the full-time gig I think
they're not totally sure how to get
they're like how numbers why they'll
support it and again just talking to
people who have done it a couple of
times before
run will give you a lot of relief but -
you kind of jump over mistakes you would
have made otherwise not because you
don't know a lot just because like how
would you have known and sometimes it
helps to have those physical people
there to actually just ask the questions
where honestly that would have taken
maybe days of googling yeah so having
people who have been there and done that
yeah it helps at time totally yeah my
natural instinct is to Google everything
oh my I can find everything on Google
but there is something about sitting
down with someone that has like 10 years
of experience that will tell you things
that you would have never been able to
find anywhere else because like some of
this is just like intuition at this
point so yeah I can't you can't yeah a
page of Google you're not gonna get
there exactly exactly
no that's so powerful yeah thanks for
being on the podcast
Thanks so fun yeah I enjoyed this so
much where can people find you and
thousand on the internet explore
thousand-dot-com that's our Facebook's
Instagram all those social media handles
- yeah and if you're around LA downtown
LA in the arts - six come on by for a
coffee yeah oh my gosh I love it oh
thank you so much for being on the
creative exchange if you guys are
watching this on YouTube make sure to
hit that like button hit that subscribe
button for new podcasts every single
Monday every single week I've actually
been pretty consistent which is good for
me it's it's it's go ahead your game
yeah yeah you can also listen on Apple
podcast or google play stitcher anywhere
where podcast can't be found thank you
guys so much for tuning in and I'll see
you in the next one